Most major change you need to be aware:
Pirate harbors are invincible now!
 Destroy all guns instead from pirate to defeat the pirates!

...

This mod fixes:

- Warfleet of pirates get neutral and leaves map when pirate harbor is destroyed, even if the pirate itself is not defeated yet and can rebuild harbor if not completely defeated in time.
-> COULD be "fixed" by commanding on harbor destroy all neutral pirate ships to move back to pirate harbor and change owner to pirate again, if pirate is not defeated yet.
   BUT unfortunately this way the warfleet is no longer recognized as warfleet from pirate, so if the pirate repairs his kontor without being defeated, he will spawn a new warfleet over time, resulting in more ships then intended. In addition these ships will act the same like comebackfleet, so only attack/defend, but no roaming around.
  So instead: we made the pirate harbor invincible. Destroy all pirate guns instead to defeat the pirate. This makes sure the harbor gets destroyed at the same time automatically) the pirate is defeated, so it is no problem anymore that the game removes the warfleet on harbor destroy.

- Comeback Fleet does not count to the WarFleet count of pirates (so pirates will have the comeback fleet plus the warfleet amount after resettle -> more than intended)
-> fixed by commanding one of the resettle ships every 45 minutes to leave map (without changing to neutral) as long as pirate is not defeated. But since you (Ac3s) likes the extreme, this trigger is not active if Combat Overhaul-Pirates mod is active.

- Warfleet does not spawn again after comeback if you defeated pirate while he had full warfleet. It does start spawn again after you destroyed at least one comebackfleet ship after rebuild.
-> also fixed by the previous fix which removes a comebackfleet ship every 45 minutes (starting 15 minutes after rebuild)

- Comeback Fleet does not change to neutral and not leaving the map, after pirate island is destroyed again.
-> fixed by changing owner of all pirate ships from pirate to neutral and tell them to leave map, as soon as pirate is defeated.

- comebackfleet regulary aborts the default pirates SquadLogic (roaming around) and stand still doing nothing, eg whenever there is a attack/defend Command (which is when island building gets attacked or a fixed time intervall for attacks).
  It seems the game devs only implemented this for the internally spawned WarFleet, while ships spawned differently or ships that left the warfleet (which happens on harbor destroy for the current warfleet) only activate this "roaming around" once after the owner of the ships was changed to Pirate.
  -> COULD be "fixed" by: Every 30 minutes this fixmod will change the owner of all pirate ships for a milisecond to neutral and then back to pirate, to make sure all ships are doing their job (will make the ships stop moving 1 second, but then they will continue doing what they did before).
  BUT this also disrupts active attacks from the ships, so we decided against it. Instead it is ok if comebackfleet is just for attacking/defending, not for roaming around.

- If the Comeback Fleet arrives while you are not at war with pirates (eg. AI destroyed them or you used pirate flag item), then the ships will simply stand next to the harbor doing nothing. You have to save+load the game, declare war and wait for the next fleet to bypass this.
-> fixed by making pirates declare war on every human they not already have war with while they are defeated. I removed my complicated code that was ment to restore previous relation as soon as comebackfleet arrives, because I agree, that it is fine to get this kind of punishment for not helping the pirates to not be defeated.
Pirates do not declare war to AIs with this fix, because I do not wanted to mess with AI personalities (may be stupid if Ais that would never be at war with pirates, suddenly are at war with them)

-  Comeback Fleet on their way to pirates harbor is owned by "General_Enemy" and therefore also shooting (drive by) at players the pirate is not at war with. 
-> "fixed" automatically by the fix of 3). Now pirates will be at war with all humans when comebaclfleet arrives, so it is no problem that ships are owned by General_enemy and shooting at everyone. (ok they will still shoot at AIs they are at peace, but I don't think this is that important)

-  If you save and load a savegame, while the Quest to destroy the comeback fleet is active, this quest will end and a new comeback fleet will arrive after "ComebackAfterKontorDestruction"-time, resulting in 2 or more comeback fleets.
-> fixed by removing the current comebackfleet when loading such a savegame. You still have to wait for the next, but at least there won't be 2 or more comebackfleets at once anymore. (this comeback-stuff is mostly outside of xml, so there is no proper way to simply start the Quest again on loading without the need to wait for the next fleet, that is why I chose this solution)

- Although the comebackfleet as "UseDangerLayer=1" defined, they still simply drive through island denfense and get shot. 
-> not fixed. See no proper way to fix this, beside making the ComebackFleet Neutral until it reaches the harbor, but I don't think this would be a good solution.
 Combat Overhaul spawns the comebackfleet in multiple smaller fleets with different spawnpoints to reduce the chance all ships drive towards a defense. But this also increases the chance that some ships will drive towards defense. I will keep this untouched.

...

Mods adding new pirate ships to the game need to add them to the vanilla Pool with GUID 700138 (only piarte ships used by the pirates, not pirate ships used by the players or quests)



############################

My ignored report to Ubisoft:

Bug

Confirmed without any mods and already verified game files. Also others report the very same bugs. No I won't provide screenshot or video, it is easily 100% reproducible with dev-tools.

Pirate Comeback Fleet bugs:
1) Warfleet of pirates get neutral and leaves map when pirate harbor is destroyed, even if the pirate itself is not defeated yet and can rebuild harbor if not completely defeated in time.
2) Comeback Fleet does not change to neutral and not leaving the map, after pirate island is destroyed again (unlike the normal warfleet of pirates).
3) Comeback Fleet on their way to pirates harbor is owned by "General_Enemy" and therefore also shooting (drive by) at players the pirate is not at war with. I noticed when I change the owner via mod to the pirate itself, the ships will stay at the harbor even after resettle, so not patrolling. I think because the "move to" command must be lifted before the AI is able to control the ships, which is in vanilla done by changing the owner from General_Enemy to Pirate. It works to spawn the ships as pirates and after resettle change the owner to General_Enemy and directly back to pirates, to make them move again, but there must be a more professional solution to this, do you not have an "unlock control for AI" command or so?!. 
4) if you manage to not destroy the remaining Comeback Fleet after second defeat, they will be stuck at the pirate harbor as soon as they move to the harbor with the new comeback fleet (because they are already pirate owner and the change from General_Enemy to Pirate can not take place, which does not unlock them for pirates control).
5) Comeback Fleet does not count to the WarFleet count of pirates (so pirates will have the comeback fleet plus the warfleet amount after resettle -> more than intended)
6) If you save and load a savegame, while the Quest to destroy the comeback fleet is active, this quest will end and a new comeback fleet will arrive after "ComebackAfterKontorDestruction"-time, resulting in 2 or more comeback fleets (this is already the result of a "fix" from ubisoft, before that fix the pirates would never resettle after loading such a savegame... so while it is better than before your fix, it was not a fix of the underlying bugs)
7) If the Comeback Fleet arrives while you are not at war with pirates (eg. AI destroyed them or you used pirate flag item), then the quests in background are not started (but the trigger that spawns the fleet) and the ships will simply stand next to the harbor doing nothing. You have to save+load the game, declare war and wait for the next fleet to bypass this.
8) Although the comebackfleet as "UseDangerLayer=1" defined, they still simply drive through island denfense and get shot. 

There might be even more bugs with pirates (eg the one I already reported, that their "GiftBalancing" "IncreasePerLevel" value has no effect), but these are the ones I found and can reproduce in vanilla without any mods.

I'm very familiar with the assets.xml code for this and I'm 99.9% sure that the defeat of the pirate is not accessible within the assets.xml and therefore somewhere hardcoded, same for many other things. Otherwise it would be easy for me to fix these bugs with help of a mod. One does really see in the assets.xml, that also your devs writing the xml had big trouble because of the missing event for defeat of pirates, lots of workarounds there, like checking for the destroyed harbor (while this does not mean the pirate is really defeated).

All of these, except 3) are bugs outside of the assets.xml. When changing the owner in 3) to pirate, this also means pirate will move the ships if AttackIntervall triggers. So simply changing the owner is no solution, until we can revoke and grant the AI the control of ships in all regards.

I would request that the most IMPORTANT thing would be to export all relevant comebackfleet code and event (PiratesDefeated) to XML file and allow us to register a trigger for a single specific Participant, even the pirates. Then modders will be able to finally really fix this. (There is an event "PirateResettled", but none for PiratesDefeated, while both ParticipantRemoved events seems not to work in this case. But it seems even PirateResettled is not able to differentiate between which pirate resettled, so also quite useless =/ )

Please ask back if you have detailed questions about GUIDs of the affected Quests or how exactly to reproduce, I can tell you everything that is visible in your assets.xml and what must be hardcoded, because it is not there.
Don't ask me for screenshots or other useless requests please, with devtools this should be reproducible in few minutes.

I also wrote a "BugFix" Mod for all of these problem, but since most of it is hardcoded and unaccessible via xml editing, my fix are only code-heavy workarounds and I decided it is worth to at least ask here if you could isntead really fix these bugs.
While I made this BugFix mod, I noticed that alot of xml actions/conditions are very limited and are not able to do things you would expect, most likely because you did not need that functionality yourself, because you instead hardcoded stuff. That is really sad that so much things are hardcoded. 
If you decide to export the hardcoded code from comebackfleet, keep in mind that actions/conditions are very limited and you might need to fix/complete them too.

If you decide to finally fix these bugs, but don't want to export the code to xml file, then please let me test your fix before you release it, so we can be sure it is really fixed and not getting worse.
Yes I might sound a bit angry and demanding, but these are bugs that were never fixed in the past ~2 years and there are plenty more unfixed bugs =/

Thanks... 

Reported here:
https://discord.com/channels/863058244934696961/1110240882852118528/1110240882852118528